These are the specimen of G.D. Topis ....you can choose from the list or you can come up with your own valid topic.......
How to Deal with High Oil Prices?
Multinational Corporations: Are they Devils in Disguise?
Are Indians Less Quality Conscious?
Ethics in Business are just a Passing Fad
Is the Consumer really the King in India?
Commercialization of Health Care: Good or Bad?
Is there any Point in having a Business Strategy when the World changes from Month to Month?
Is the Patents Bill Good for India?
Is the Business of Business only Business?
Public Sector being a Guarantor of Job Security is a Myth
Capitalism is a very Flawed System but the others are so much worse
How can a Business get rid of the Bad Name that it has earned?
Government Pumping Money into the Economy is not the Solution for our Economic Problems
Is the Budgeting Exercise of any Use?
Should Agricultural Subsidies be stopped?
Is MNCs Superior to Indian Companies?
Advertising is a Waste of Resources
Privatization will lead to Less Corruption
Should India break Diplomatic Ties with Pakistan?
Use of Force by Banks to Recover Loans
Skilled Manpower Shortage in India
Technology Creates Income Disparities
In our economic matters, there is an excessive tendency towards the thinking rather than doing.
Every cloud has a silver lining
Is disinvestment really that good for India or is a rethink in order?
Are co-operatives relevant in today's globalised environment?
Foreign aid is a dangerous drug that can stimulate in small doses but become fatally addictive in larger doses.
Government should clean its own hands before pointing finger at the private sector for corruption.
Reforms have to grow up.
Globalization vs. Nationalism
Economic freedom not old fashioned theories of development will lead to growth and prosperity
Should businessmen run the finance ministry?
Should important services like transport be left to market forces?.
Who says MNCs are superior to Indian companies?
What we need to reduce scams is better regulatory bodies.
Trade can help the poor?
Water resources should be nationalised
Are Co-operatives Relevant in Today's Global Environment?
Indian villages - our strength or our weakness?
Space Missions are a Wastage of Resources for a Resource-Starved Nation like India
Satyam Scandal would Impact Foreign Investments in India
Private Participation in Infrastructure is Highly Desirable
Developing Countries need Trade, not Aid
Poverty in Third World Countries is due to Prosperity in First World Countries
Indian Economy: Old Wine in New Bottle!
Is Globalization Really Necessary?
What shall we do about our Ever-Increasing Population?
Banning of Trade Unions will be Beneficial in Growth of the Economy
Why can't India be a World-Class Player in Manufacturing Industry as it is in IT & BPO Sectors?
We Need Drinking Water and Not Coke & Pepsi in Rural India
Rise of Regional Blocs Threatens Independent Nations like India
Should the public sector be privatized?